So our talk this afternoon, scripture reading comes from Isaiah 59.
So shall they fear the name of the Lord from the West and its glory from the rising of the sun.
When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the spirit of the Lord shall lift up a standard against him.
Our message for this afternoon is entitled the Holy Spirit's
final work.
Let's pray, Father God, we thank You for this opportunity to study Your Word.
We thank You Lord, for Your truth and for Your love.
We ask now, Lord, that Your Holy Spirit will lead us into truth.
Remove the distractions, Lord, bind Satan, and allow us, Lord, to hear You speak to us, Lord.
This is our prayer in Jesus' name.
Amen.
All right.
So Matthew 12, 22, then was brought unto Him, one possessed with a devil.
blind and dumb and he healed him in so much that the blind and dumb both spake and saw.
So this is one of the miracles of Jesus.
Jesus is there.
There's a man possessed with a demon.
The demon is made and the man at the same time is blind.
He's unable to communicate.
Jesus heals him and a man begins to see and speak.
Verse 23 says, and all the people were amazed and said,
is not this the son of David.
So the people see this miracle and the people say, this has to be the son of David.
This is the Messiah.
Here he is.
But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, this fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub, the prince of the devil.
So the Pharisees are green with envy.
You can see and hear the jealousy and the tone of how they speak.
And they see that this man who was bound for so long.
And remember the Pharisees and Sadducees probably walked past this guy a million times
probably looked down upon him, said he was a sinner, never deserved to do good like they did with the quadriplegic a gentleman later on.
And when Jesus heals them, they accuse Jesus of healing using the devil.
Very serious allegation.
You know, it's interesting because we were talking about fake healers at church on Wednesday night and
A guy, some of you remember me, remember a guy, I think he said a lot, Benny Hinn, do you remember him?
Benny Hinn used to put on a show boy, I'm telling you, and fill auditoriums all across this country.
And of course it turns out it was all just, seems like it was all really just fake.
There was nothing real to it at all.
But he would go around and do this.
And really he was a shaman if you watch him carefully, meaning he almost practiced like a formal witchcraft or whatever.
But this is this kind of thing, but he couldn't really heal people.
People want this power to heal, but in order to have it, you really would have to be submitted to God.
The Pharisees were not submitted.
And so when they saw Jesus doing these works, they were upset because they might lose their control and influence over the people.
So Jesus knew their thoughts.
If you didn't know that Jesus was divine here, the proof, he knew their thoughts.
Does the devil know your thoughts?
The devil can't know your thoughts.
Only God can.
So Jesus knew their thoughts and said unto them, every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation.
And every city or house divided against itself shall not stand.
If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself.
How then?
then his kingdom stands.
And he says, listen, there's no possible way that I'm doing what I'm doing.
I'm doing by the power of the devil because if so, the devil's kingdom would fall apart.
It's not what's happening.
He says, and if the Elizabeth cast out devils by who do your children cast them out?
I love them.
Jesus was feisty.
I like it.
He said, if the Elizabeth was what I'm using, who are you using?
Who are your children doing it with me?
Therefore they shall be your judges."
Then Jesus says, but if I cast out devils, here it is, by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you.
This gives you a window into spiritual warfare.
Jesus actually says here, he casts out devils by the Spirit of God.
How important is the Holy Spirit?
It is the Holy Spirit.
So here's the thing.
We are all in spiritual warfare.
Some of us feel it because the deeper into God you get, the more like Christ you seek to become, the more the devil gets angry, the more he turns his weapons against you, the more fiery darts he throws, and you feel it like I've felt it in my life.
You see it coming at you at all of the cause.
Other people say, well, you know, nothing ever happens to me.
Well, if the devil's not mad at you, you're doing something wrong.
But when Jesus needed to deal with the devil, he says here, the Holy Spirit is what would cast the devil out.
If you want to win spiritual warfare, you've got to understand the final work of the Holy Spirit.
If not, there's no transformation of character.
There's no seal of God as we're going to talk about all these things.
There's no way to fight the devil.
You're going to be walloped.
Here it is.
To misunderstand the work of the Holy Spirit is very dangerous.
It's a very, very dangerous thing.
So what do people do to try to make the Holy Spirit impotent?
They deny the personhood and the divinity of the Holy Spirit.
Make the Holy Spirit something people control rather than the Holy Spirit controlling people.
I talked a little bit about that earlier.
This is one of the things I really am concerned about even today in some of our churches, CD brooks.
Great preacher.
Yeah, you guys remember CD Brooks.
That guy was phenomenal.
You know, he said he said the greatest threat to the black church, black and finished church is neo pentecostalism.
He said that years ago, and what does that mean?
It means you move to it.
It's not just the black church.
I go, my wife is Latina.
If you go, we go to sometimes go to Spanish churches and Portuguese speaking churches and you're starting to see the same move where it's more like neo pentecostalism.
It's the church service is more about how you
feel than actually having an experience with God that moves you to a place of conviction and the desire to give up things and become more like God.
To have the Holy Spirit transform your character.
So a lot of people go to church every week, and I hear people say, I want the church to get my praise on.
It's like back when I was in college, we say, I'm going to get my club on.
They're going to a nightclub.
Church is not supposed to be an emotional exercise.
It is a spiritual discipline.
It is a coming together so that by the power of the Holy Spirit, we grow in Christ.
I read this one earlier today, evangelism 6 17.
The Holy Spirit has a personality.
Else he could not bear witness of our spirits and with our spirits that we are the children of God.
He must also be a divine person.
Else he could not search out the secrets which lie hidden in the mind of God.
for what man knows the things of man, save the spirit of man, which is in him, even so the things of God knows no man, but the spirit of God, Manuscript 20, 1906.
And so here Ellen White is speaking to understanding that the Holy Spirit is a person.
She's speaking to the fact that the Holy Spirit is divine.
And what people say now is, well, the Ellen White estate messed that up as foolishness.
I said it earlier, anytime
Someone says, look, I want you to believe different.
And the way that you took forward to believing different is we got to throw Bible verses out of the Bible.
If you want this doctrine to be real, these verses can't count.
We want this truth to be real.
The spirit of prophecy has been corrupted and we got to take this out.
But if you take, here's why the devil likes people saying stuff like that.
Because if you take that to its logical conclusion, it means the Bible nor the spirit of prophecy can be trusted at all.
Right?
If you can't trust this Bible on the, on the, on the divinity of Christ and the Holy Spirit, well, how do you trust the Bible on anything else?
If you're saying every time the Bible says this, that verse really shouldn't have been there.
And when L.O.I says this, that shouldn't have really been in there.
Then what do you trust?
It's deeper than the actual issue.
It's a statement about the fact that you want to rewrite the Bible and the spirit of prophecy.
There's a danger in that.
We read this one this morning and I gave a little bit more information on it, but here it is.
Verse 7, for there are three that bear record in heaven.
Who bears record in heaven?
The Father, the Word and the Holy Ghost and these three are one.
And as I said this morning, it is important to understand this is a statement about the triune nature of God, the role that each one has.
It speaks of Jesus as the word, just like John did in first John.
I didn't mention it this morning, but in defense of this verse, it's not just the things I mentioned this morning, it's also grammar.
The verse before it speaks to a masculine, a subject which would come in this verse, verse five, seven, which makes this verse make sense.
If you remove this verse, the verse before it actually grammatically doesn't make sense.
This verse was there.
This verse is important.
So what is the final work of the Holy Spirit?
Number one, seal the church.
And when I say seal the church, I mean seal us as individuals that are members of the church, right?
Ephesians 5, 25, we'll come back to that.
To be a comforter, especially and specifically in the time of trouble.
When the time of trouble comes, you are going to want the Holy Spirit, right?
You're not going to want some idea of the Holy Spirit being the extension of Jesus or the breath of Jesus.
You're going to want that person that was there with Paul who gave direction.
Remember when Philip went to go deal with the Ethiopian unique?
The Bible says that the spirit spoke to Philip and told him where to go.
The Holy Spirit spoke to Philip.
In the time of trouble, the Holy Spirit is going to speak to us.
Give direction.
It can't do that if it is not a person.
Hold the enemy at bay.
The Holy Spirit is what does that.
And the reason
So many Adventists and Christian homes are overrun by the devil is because the Holy Spirit is absent from the home.
There are all kinds of other spirits running around in the house, but none of them are the Holy Spirit.
You got the spirit of Marvel, you got the spirit of DC, you got the spirit of Harry Potter, all kinds of spirits in the house.
The spirit of the living God is not there.
And of course, the final work of the Holy Spirit, one of them is,
unity of and in the church unity the Holy Spirit does unity here's on unity Any attempt at unity across Christendom without the Holy Spirit will lead to Babylonian confusion like we talked about this morning unity in doctrine and in purpose is critical the current move to you Ecumenical unity is not driven by the Holy Spirit but by politics and a desire of the first beast of Revelation 13 and
To heal his deadly wound and take back control.
Let me tell you what is really going on.
I should have put some slides in here on this, but let me just speak to it.
After recent events, including the death of Charlie Kirk, which I believe is one of the most pivotal things to have happened in recent times from a spiritual and prophetic perspective.
And you don't want to miss this Monday night's message is on as Charlie Kirk.
So you don't want to miss that one.
But here's why I say that.
It goes in two directions.
One, Charlie Kirk spoke of the Sabbath.
And because of that, he has introduced thousands of people to the Sabbath.
So we'll talk more about that Monday night.
But the other one is out of it has come a revival.
College campuses, young people are being baptized, I'm seeing videos of big praise services and worship services.
And what you have to understand is that it is prophesied that not only is there going to be a lot of rain,
Not only is there, you know, you have that, the Holy Spirit fall, but the devil's going to have a counterfeit to that.
And here's the test.
How do you know when it's the counterfeit?
Well, it will be devoid of the work of the Holy Spirit.
What is the work of the Holy Spirit to lead you into all truth?
So when you have revival that is not fully truthful, you've got to be skeptical.
Now that doesn't mean that there are people who are going to go through some of these revivals.
Pick up, start picking up their Bibles, reading, and God will continue to lead them.
I'm not saying that.
I'm not saying that it's all wasted energy.
What I am saying, however, is true revival leads you to truth, changes behavior, causes repentance, and makes you different than the world.
A lot of people want revival without reformation.
And so what you're gonna see is a lot of these folks are gonna be getting all this stuff.
They're gonna come out.
They're gonna listen to the same Christian rock music.
They can go back to the same movie theater next week.
They can go back to the same old lifestyle.
When God finally touches you, you're supposed to be a different creature in Christ Jesus.
And the second beast of Revelation 13 represents the United States.
We're talking about this at lunch.
It represents the United States of America.
But the first beast is the one that the image is going to be set up to.
And it is going to come out of his false revival.
So here's how you have to see it.
If emotionalism feel good things and even miracles is how you base your belief and Christianity, you will be deceived.
If you understand it when the Holy Spirit comes, it's not always comfortable.
It's not always easy.
You walk away pricked contemplating your walk with God.
So you can see this is the National Catholic Register.
They have an article here.
The Trump administration is more Catholic than you know.
And I want to submit to, you know, there are a lot of people who are big fans of Donald Trump.
You ever hear me give my testimony?
I like messing with people because I always say, Donald Trump helped me get out of the mess I was in.
I say that in some churches, people get mad.
Ooh, you can't go say anything good about Donald Trump.
But Donald Trump is not the devil and he's not the Messiah.
He's neither.
He can't save the world and he single-handedly is not going to lose the world.
But what is going to happen is that there is, as you can see, there's a fomenting of a more religious American government, something that none of us have ever seen in our lives.
And when I was growing up and kidding the Seventh-day Adventist church, they talked about this being a possibility.
It seemed like an impossibility.
I remember when Jimmy Carter was president and he was a Southern Baptist, and I was just, I was a little baby when this happened, I still remember it.
You know what I'm saying?
He's a Southern Baptist.
He's gonna lead to the market of the beast.
John F. Kennedy was president before my time.
He was Catholic.
He said, oh, he's going to lead to the market of the beast.
The market of the beast doesn't come because a man is elected.
It comes because here's the irony, the people want it.
And this is where we're going.
When Trump won so much of the labor party and minorities in this last election, there is a shift that is happening.
And what you're going to find is that there are groups of people who are normally
of at each other's throat, who right now are going to want a Sunday law.
At that point is going to come.
And we're beginning to see those pieces come together, labor unions and environmentalists, which are normally not in the same boat, along with evangelical Christians.
Things are about to change.
We talk about the seal of God as being the fourth commandment, the Sabbath.
that when you read Exodus 20 and verse 8, it reads like a seal.
We talk about that when we give Bible study, how to sabotage like a seal.
But remember that it is a seal.
It is a seal, but it is that part of the seal you can see.
It is the part of where you are living out the inward sealing.
You are obedient to God when the world is being disobedient.
When a devil is giving you every excuse to disobey God, you decide, I'm going to believe him.
So people say to me,
Why is the seven day Sabbath the final test?
Why would a day of the week, why does God care what day you worship?
And if you heard me preach before I say it all the time, I would ask you the same question about the first test.
Why would it matter what tree you pick from and eat in a garden?
If it mattered in the garden, if it's he said so in the garden and it mattered in the garden, it's going to matter.
The day is going to matter in the end times.
So number one, why is the Holy Spirit so important right now?
It is what will seal the people of God.
It is the work of the Holy Spirit, Revelation 14, and I looked in low.
A lamb stood on the Mount Zion and with him 144,000 having his father's name written in their foreheads.
The seal of God goes in the forehead.
The name of God goes in the forehead.
What does name represent?
Character.
What is it that the 144,000 have?
The character of Christ.
His name is written in their foreheads.
You know, the mark of the beast even says the name of the beast.
Some people are going, that mark of the beast is also a name or can be a name written in the forehead.
I want the name of Jesus written here.
Ephesians 4, 30 says, and grieve not in the Holy Spirit of God.
Why is it so dangerous to mess with the Holy Spirit?
We talked about a little bit earlier.
Here's another, because whereby you are sealed under the day of redemption, when people reject the Holy Spirit, they reject the source.
the only source by which you can be sealed."
And Revelation 7, one through three tells us, there are four angels holding back the winds of strife.
A fifth angel comes on the scene and a fifth angel says, hurt not the earth, neither the seed nor the trees until we have sealed the servants of our God and their foreheads.
If you don't have that seal, you're in trouble because you will receive the seven last plagues.
Let me tell you something.
We lived through COVID.
That was a plague.
Oh, as pales in comparison to those seven last ones.
Remember in Egypt, there were 10 plagues.
The first three plagues, the children of Israel and the Egyptians got.
It was only the seven last plagues that only the Egyptians got.
So when you understand the seven last plague, there gonna be plagues before that we might get stuck with some of those.
Maybe, you know, things like COVID and stuff, but I'm telling you, I do not want any plague I don't have to get.
I wanna be sealed.
And COVID, you think COVID was bad.
I remember when HIV was the big pandemic, if you go back a few, two decades, what's coming is worse.
And how are you protected against it to be sealed by the Holy Spirit?
Ephesians 113, in whom you also trusted.
After that, you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation.
And whom also after that, you believe you were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise.
It is a dangerous thing.
to decry or to reject or to downgrade the Holy Spirit.
Last, the events page 219 on the white says this, just as soon as the people of God are sealed in their foreheads, it is not any seal or mark that can be seen, but a settling into the truth, both intellectually and spiritually, so that they cannot be moved.
Just as soon as God's people are sealed and prepared for the shaking, it will come.
Indeed, it has begun already.
just as soon as people got our seal in their foreheads.
And here's what she says, it is not a mark that can be seen.
What is the seal of God really?
It is a settling into the truth in two different ways.
What are they?
One, intellectually, our last message was artificial intelligence.
The Holy Spirit will help you to understand the Bible and its teachings.
All those Bible studies you're getting when it's time, it's the Holy Spirit that will bring these things back to your memory the Bible says.
That's the work of the Holy Spirit.
You have to have it intellectually, but church, if all you have is an intellectual understanding of Bible truth, you will still be lost just because you can pass an exam on the prophecies or on the Bible stories does not mean you're going to be saved.
The Bible says the demons believe and they tremble.
It is the second part that must go in that first one and they're both important because some churches don't teach the truth anymore, but you want
to spiritually know these things.
When you have these things intellectually and spiritually, what does it mean to have the truth spiritually?
It means that it changes your character.
You grow in Christ.
It means nothing to have all these great doctrines and still be a mean person.
I never understood it.
How are you gonna say you know Jesus and be mean at the same time?
Even when I wanna get mad at myself, I said, no, no, no, no, I won't be like Jesus if I get upset right now.
Right?
It settles in intellectually and spiritually so that you cannot be moved.
We're talking about the seal anchoring you.
This is why it's deeper than just the outward keeping of the Sabbath.
It is deeper because it is the inward keeping of the Sabbath.
Meaning you are willing to do what God says, even if the whole world is against you.
And that's why it is a shaky.
The seal of the living God will be placed upon those
only who bear a likeness to Christ in character.
That's why the Holy Spirit does the sealing because it's the Holy Spirit that does the character developing.
Those who receive the seal of the living God and are protected in the time of trouble must reflect the image of Jesus fully.
They're not preaching this anymore.
You've got a lot of churches and people are teaching this and you can basically be who you want, do what you want, whatever happens, happens.
My Bible tells me that if you truly love Christ, you're going to want to be like Him.
God's love language is obedience, right?
Jesus says, if you love me, keep my commandments.
Then the Bible says it is the love of Christ that constraineth us.
If you really want to experience God's love and Christ's love, it happens because you love him and when his love comes back, it restrains you to be more like him.
And it's like a cycle that happens and you grow over the course of your life to be more like Jesus.
Last day, events page 221, the Seal of God will never be placed upon the forehead of an impure man or woman.
It will never be placed upon the forehead of the ambitious, world-loving man or woman.
It will never be placed upon the forehead of men or women of false tongues or deceitful hearts.
All who receive the seal must be, without spot before God, candidates for heaven.
That is a powerful statement.
The good news is you don't have to make yourself ready.
God will do that.
The Bible says that he who has begun a good work in you
We'll see it through to its completion.
The question is, will you let God do his work in you?
First Peter, 1-2.
Elect according to the foreknowledge of God, the Father through sanctification of the Spirit, that's the process.
Onto obedience and sprinkling out of the blood of Jesus Christ.
Grace unto you and peace be multiplied.
1 Corinthians 6, 9, no ye not, that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor feminine, nor abusers of themselves, with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God.
When I preach this in some of my, the message I do on sexual purity, I stop here and I say, man, it was just this, I'd be in trouble.
What hope would there be for me or for most of us?
If this was the litmus test, he said, I can't do it.
But the Bible goes on in verse 11 and says, and such were some of you.
How did you become no longer a fornicator, adult or all those other things?
Here it is, because you've been washed, you've been sanctified, you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the spirit of our God.
You throw out the Holy Spirit, you throw out the means by which
You pass from the old man to the new one.
Galatians 3, O foolish, Kelly, verse 1, O foolish Galatians who have bewitched you that you should not obey the truth before whose eyes Jesus Christ has been evidently set forth crucified among you.
This only would I learn of you received either spirit by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith.
Are you so foolish?
Having begun in the spirit, are you now made perfect by the flesh?
When you reject the Holy Spirit, you leave it and now you say, well, I'm gonna be made perfect by the flesh.
Your flesh can't make itself perfect.
If your flesh can make itself perfect, Jesus would not need to come and die.
Second, the Holy Spirit works as a comforter.
And I see more tragedy, more difficulty daily.
I mean, you hear these terrible stories.
I mean, we just, you know, we just came out of a out of a terrible war in the Middle East.
It's the ceasefire.
Hopefully it holds and we don't.
There's no more war in that area for a long, long while.
If hopefully never again, I don't know that that's the case, but we'll see.
You have the war in Europe between Ukraine and Russia, really Russia still kind of pushing that war as we hope that that war will come to an end.
And sometimes when you look at the condition of the world, you lose a loved one.
You lose.
a friend to death or something terrible.
You get somebody gets divorced.
All these things happen.
You go through the traumas that life affords and gives each one of us.
These traumas become difficult.
Here's the truth.
You need the Holy Spirit to make sense of this world.
You need the Holy Spirit to comfort you when you grieve.
When you look back on your memories and they are so terrible that they frighten you and awaken you and awaken you out of your sleep.
I came to tell you, it is the Holy Spirit that can give you peace and comfort.
John 14, 16, Jesus says, and I will pray to Father, and He shall give you another comforter that He may abide with you forever.
Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive because it sees Him not, neither knows Him, but she know Him, for He dwells with you, and shall be in you.
So when people say, well, the Holy Spirit is really just an extension of Jesus, or the breath of Jesus, it makes no sense when you read this.
If it's his own breath, why is he calling him him?
You ever call your own breath him or her?
It makes no sense at all, right?
It says it sees him, not neither knows him, but you know him, right?
So you, this is someone you can get to know even the spirit of truth.
Acts 9, 31, then at the church's rest throughout all Judea and Galilean, Samaria and we're edified.
and walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost were multiplied.
I need the comfort of the Holy Ghost in my life.
Life is difficult.
Bad stuff, you get bad diagnosis.
If without the Holy Spirit, after I lost my mother, I am so glad I knew Jesus.
And I'm so glad for the Holy Spirit.
Some of you have heard me tell the story of my cousin, Sean Taylor, who played for the Washington Redskins.
That was so difficult.
It took the comforter to get us through that.
It is the Holy Spirit that does that work.
Romans 826, likewise the Spirit also helps our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
Here's another one.
If without the Holy Spirit, your prayers are not effective.
It is the work of the Holy Spirit to take my rambling when I pray,
and bring it to the throne room of God and make sense of it for my salvation.
So listen, I could go there and pray for a Bugatti and a Lamborghini and a Maybach and I could pray all day and night and the Holy Spirit would take that up there and say, that man need a bicycle.
You're getting ahead of himself.
Get him a moped.
It's the Holy Spirit that takes our prayers
and delivers them to God so that they are the most effective prayers.
Manuscript 27, 1889, when about to leave his disciples, Christ was in search of the greatest comfort he could give them.
He promised them the Holy Spirit, the comforter, to combine with man's human effort.
What promise is less experienced, less fulfilled to the church than the promise of the Holy Spirit?
When this blessing, which would bring all blessings in its train is dropped out, the sure result is spiritual drought.
And you see it as people began to reject this truth.
You see the spiritual drought.
There are people who are more concerned with convincing other Adventists not to believe in the Holy Spirit than introducing the world to Jesus Christ.
That's the drought.
Because now it's more about me being right than about me doing God's work.
It's the manuscript of 27, 1889.
Oh, why do our church members stop short of their privileges?
They are not personally alive to the necessity of the influence of the spirit of God.
We've got to be, I mean, once I started studying this, I said, when I pray, I say, Lord, I want the Holy Spirit.
I want Him working in my heart and my life
I want him watching over my children.
I want him to fill my children.
And if they don't want him, I say, Lord, I give you the permission to give it to them anyway.
Oh, why do we spend our breath and our precious letters and manuscripts, volume 11, 1896?
Oh, why do we spend our breath and our precious golden moments in bemoaning our leanness and wretchedness?
Christ has made every provision for us by giving us a comforter in His representative, the Holy Spirit.
to be ever present to us from the tree of life, its precious fruit.
The office work of the Holy Spirit is to bring to our remembrance all things that Christ has spoken for our comfort, that we may have hope and a sweet sense of forgiveness.
I like how she starts this.
Why do we spend our breath and our precious golden moments in bemoaning our leanness and wretchedness?
Satan wants you
constantly thinking about how inadequate you are so you don't see how overwhelmingly adequate God is.
He likes you looking at yourself.
He likes you studying your faults.
He likes you looking at your failures.
The devil wants you looking backwards.
As long as you're looking backwards at your past, as long as you're looking down at your faults, your mistakes, your weaknesses, as long as you're looking at yourself, you become more like your past than yourself.
The secret to gaining victory over sin is to look up to Christ.
And what the Holy Spirit does is bring to your mind the efficacies of Christ that he can do what he said he's going to do.
You reject the Holy Spirit, you cut the cord that ties you to the work Christ has done for you.
This doesn't this one.
A letters and manuscripts 11, go continues.
A rich current of praise and gratitude and thanks given will constantly flow from our soul.
The sweet spirit of Jesus will kindle in our hearts, grateful praise.
Our souls will be uplifted with a sense of security and the unfailing, inexhaustible righteousness of Christ becomes our righteousness by faith.
It is righteousness by faith.
You can't have faith that Christ can make you righteousness if you don't, righteous, if you don't believe that Christ can make you righteous.
You got to believe he can do what seems impossible.
Can you imagine what it must have been like for the disciples walking around with Jesus?
Can you imagine that Lazarus is too?
They told them that, you know, we should hurry up and go.
He's an animal.
We're going to wait and they're like, well, all right.
Well, Thomas said, well, listen, he's going to go to Bethany.
We're going to cut through the batteries.
We'll just all go and die with them.
That's how little faith they had.
They get in Martha and Mary, kind of confront them like, hey, man, had you been here, he would have lived.
And yet Jesus goes to do the impossible after Lazarus' body would have begun to rot and stink.
Jesus goes to his grave, calls Lazarus' name, and Lazarus gets up out of the tomb and walks out.
Let me tell you something.
If you've been dead in sin, know that Christ can bring you out.
But the third one, spiritual warfare.
is that he can hold the enemy at bay.
Matthew 12, 29, or else how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man and then he will spoil his house.
Who's the strong man?
Satan.
Satan is the strong man.
He is the strong man.
The house is his world.
Christ is bound Satan and will spoil his house, meaning he will take that would say now possesses the lost souls and freedom.
That is why he says what he says in verse 30.
which is he that is not with me is against me.
And he that gather gather is not with me scatters abroad.
The strong man is Satan.
Satan became the strong man when he took the took over for Adam and Eve when he caused them to fall.
But Jesus is telling you he's going to bind him.
Jesus is going to win.
Isaiah 59, 19.
So shall they fear the fear the name of the Lord from the West and his glory from the rising of the sun.
I like what the chapter says actually before that.
But I read this, just to read this part, when the enemies shall come in like a flood, who does the work?
The Spirit of the Lord.
Here's the Holy Spirit lifting up a standard against the devil.
We've got to be praying for the Holy Spirit.
Special testimony series A1897, the power of God in the third person says, the prince of the power of evil can only be held in check
by the power of God in the third person of the Godhead, the Holy Spirit.
That verse in Isaiah 59, and this quote, when you combine them tells you, you will never win the battles in spiritual warfare if you are not relying on the Holy Spirit.
Pray for the Holy Spirit.
When the devil is coming after you, and sometimes he will, it'll seem like everything is going wrong all at once.
You'll be maligned, persecuted, you'll be attacked.
That's the time you say, Lord, send your comforter, send the Holy Spirit to lift up a standard against what the devil is trying to do right now.
Matthew 1231 read this earlier, wherefore I send you all manner of sin and blasphemy,
shall be forgiven unto men, with the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.
And whosoever speaks a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him.
But whosoever speaks against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come.
I'm going to play around with the Holy Spirit.
As I have ages page 320, it was just before this that Jesus had a second time performed the miracle of healing a man possessed, blind, and dumb.
And the Pharisees had reiterated the charge.
He casts out devils through the prince of the devils.
Christ told them plainly that in attributing the work of the Holy Spirit to Satan, they were cutting themselves off from the fountain of blessing.
Powerful.
He says those who had spoken against Jesus himself, not discerning his divine character, might receive forgiveness.
For through the Holy Spirit, they might be brought to see their error and repent.
Whatever the sin, if the soul repents and believes,
The guilt is washed away in the blood of Christ.
Here it is.
But he who rejects the work of the Holy Spirit is placing himself where repentance and faith cannot come to him.
It is by the Spirit of God.
It is by the Spirit that God works upon the heart.
When men willfully reject the Spirit and declare it to be from Satan, they cut off the channel by which God can communicate with them.
When the Spirit is finally rejected, there is no more that God can do for the soul.
So when people reject it, their behavior change.
It is not as nothing working on their character to make them more like Christ.
And it will act out terribly.
It is the Holy Spirit that helps us to behave like Christians.
The Holy Spirit is today moving upon the consciences of men.
shining unto the chambers of the mind and heart, speaking strength to the servants of God, warnings and invitations.
The Holy Spirit accompanies the believers, by the way, impressing their hearts to be and comforting the souls of those that decide to obey the truth.
This makes the words spoken efficient.
He who feels his own danger is on the watch lest he shall grieve the Holy Spirit and then draw away from God because he knows that he is not pleased with his course of action.
How much better and safer it is to draw night to God, close to God, that the pure light shining from his word may heal the wounds that sin has made in the soul.
The closer we are to God, the safer we are.
For Satan hates and fears the presence of God.
Submit yourselves therefore to God.
Resist the devil and he will flee from you.
The devil can't stand to be in the presence of God.
How do you get close to the presence of God?
One way is you study the Bible.
And let me tell you a secret.
You should not always read the Bible in your, in your mind.
There are sometimes the Bible needs to be read out loud.
The demons need to hear what you're reading.
Somebody will say amen.
When Roger Merno in his book, a trip into the supernatural.
One of my favorite books to talk about it all the time.
Roger Merno came out of demon worship in Montreal, Canada and became a seven day event as Christian.
And the demons continued to come after him even after he had become a Christian and go into church.
And you Roger Reynolds says what he would do when a demons would come to harass him at night.
He would read out loud from Matthew chapter 27.
He would read out loud the story of the crucifixion of Christ.
And he says when the demons would hear that story, the demons flee.
It is the word of God that draws you close to him.
But it's something else, praising God.
One of the things the devil wants you to do is be so miserable that you're always complaining about life.
The devil wants you so miserable, you complain about every bad thing that's ever happened to you.
He wants you to complain, complain, complain, complain, complain, because as long as you're complaining, you're not gonna praise God.
That's what happened.
Remember, we just went through Exodus in the Sabbath school lesson.
That's what the problem with the children of Israel were.
They were, I mean, a pillar of fire at night, a cloud led them by day,
I mean, they had the Shekinah glory of God in the most holy place in the 10th of sanctuary that they had right in front of them.
They had all of that evidence.
And yet what did they focus on?
What was wrong?
Or going back to Egypt for some of us, even with all the evidences God has given us, we are so busy focused on the flesh pots of Egypt.
So busy, upset about what happened before.
We're not looking at what is God doing for you right now.
And the Bible says that God inhabits the praises of Israel.
If you want God to be with you, I'm gonna challenge you to praise him in the storm.
Praise him when everything is going wrong.
You see, I say this all the time with Jesus in the vessel, you can smile at the storm.
The problem is never the storm.
It's whether or not you got Jesus in the vessel.
Instead of telling God how big your storm is, I want you to go home and tell your storm how big your God is.
Matthew 28, verse 19, go you therefore and teach all nations.
baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost.
I want to tell you that this is really what it's all about.
We need the Holy Spirit to spread this gospel around the world.
The church is themed for this year's Pentecost 2025.
And the devil has been working hard to keep the church divided, fighting over issues, racial issues pop up in our church sometime and it grieves me.
I look at what is being said online
And a lot of times, even some of our own African-American brothers and sisters, some of the stuff recently I've seen said and done, it just grieves me.
Because what is happening on the left with the BLM type mindset that you see permeating many of our churches or on the right where it's more of a Christian nationalist, patriotic fervor, we've got to be careful on both sides.
You've got to be careful on both sides.
Because at the end of the day, as I said earlier, nobody can save this world.
No matter.
They've tried it.
Communism has failed.
It's responsible for over a hundred million deaths.
Capitalism is great.
I'm a capitalist.
But the truth is capitalism itself is also not perfect.
Great, big income inequality sometimes and so forth.
All of that happens.
But this earth is not our home.
This isn't our final place.
And once you understand that you begin to realize, I want to be with Christ.
And if I'm going to be with Him in eternity, I need to be with Him now.
The center would not be happy in heaven.
Did you know that?
If someone, I was talking about praising God.
If you praise God and it makes you joyous, the center doesn't want to praise God.
The center is turned away and angry at the praising God.
When I do my talks with young people,
I've been talking a lot.
I've been doing some research on somebody recent pop stars.
I'm older than all of those kind of music now.
But people like Kendrick Lamar and Taylor Swift and Billy Eilish and all these people.
And I start studying the lyrics to these songs.
And I tell young people, the reason you don't want to go to church, the reason the Bible seems difficult is because when you listen to this music, there is a different spirit
speaking to you.
It is not the Holy Spirit.
It is the spirit of the world and the spirit of the devil.
And they don't believe me.
And I showed them the lyrics.
I put the lyrics up on the screen and show them.
They tell you that they worshiped the devil.
They tell you that they're witches.
Kendrick Lamar who did the last Super Bowl last year.
And I know none of you could understand what he was saying.
Like I didn't understand what he was saying.
But if you put him in there, he has a song called Lucy.
He has a whole conversation with Lucifer.
So when you're a young person and this is what you strap to your head and you listen to it over and over and over and over again, by repetition and the power of music to bypass the frontal lobe, these messages get embedded deep in you.
And now you begin to have these thoughts.
I don't really want to go to church.
I don't really want to study the Bible.
I hate when my family has worship and you think as a teenager, these are your thoughts.
They weren't your thoughts.
They're not your thoughts.
Those are the thoughts that the devil is implanting in your mind through modern entertainment.
You got to get rid of those false spirits out of your life to give room for the Holy Spirit to work.
Those spirits lead to destruction, death and misery.
And I see it.
I see people who raised that Venice and they give it up and now they've got the good life.
And once you sit with them for a few minutes, you realize just how unhappy and how little peace they have in their life.
The Holy Spirit's work.
Besides sealing you, leading you into truth, making you more like Christ in character, the Holy Spirit's work is to give you peace when the world is in chaos.
Because that peace says that you trust Jesus Christ.
That peace says your hope is not in yourself or in man, it is in God.
And so I'm going back to it.
The church is being fractured.
the racial part of it, the political part of it.
I can name all kinds of everything from women's ordination to the music style.
The churches keeps getting broken up into pieces because the devil knows it takes a unified church to finish the work.
That's why there's going to be a shaking.
The shaking is going to be so that you shake off that, which will not unify so that the work can be finished so that we can go home.
The Holy Spirit's work is important.
We can't belittle the Holy Spirit.
Can't change the Holy Spirit.
Can't call the Holy Spirit what He is not.
Because the blessing of the Holy Spirit is a sin Jesus says, you can't come back from.
So I once again want to say, I trust God.
And I want the Holy Spirit working in my heart, my life, and in my family.
That's what you want to stand with me as we close in prayer.
Father God, we thank you for this opportunity to study a word and to learn more about your Holy Spirit.
Father God, if we are without the Holy Spirit, we are in trouble.
Lord, right now I pray for the Holy Spirit for this church, for the pastor and leadership of this church.
I pray Lord that the Holy Spirit would fill not this place, but our hearts.
Father God, the Holy Spirit would seal.
convict, convert, and grow us to be more like Jesus in character.
Lord, I claim the blood of Jesus over this church, over its members, and I, and I, Lord, I rebuke Satan on their behalf.
And I pray, Lord, that as they seek to expand ministry and do more, Father God, you would send who needs to be sent.
Lord, you would work things out,
that they would continue to be a bright light right here in Nebraska.
Bless this church, Lord.
And the young people that I've met today, Lord, I pray a special blessing on them.
There are some of them here, Lord, who have a purpose and a calling on their lives.
I pray now, Lord, that the burden that they've been carrying would be lifted, that the confusion of where direction they should go would abate, that father, everyone from the littlest child to the young adults.
would have direction.
That Jesus has called, and by the power of this same Holy Ghost, He's going to use them, my Lord.
Bless our young people to this end, we pray.
In Jesus' name, amen.
This media was brought to you by Audioverse, a website dedicated to spreading God's word through free sermon audio, and much more.
If you would like to know more about Audioverse, or if you would like to listen to more sermons, please visit
www.audioverse.org.